I didn't get on the New York Times
bestseller list because a lot of
individuals bought the book you know be
fully transparent that wasn't the case I
got on the New York Times bestselling
list because
ladies and gentlemen Neil Patel what's
up Neil uh thanks for having me I didn't
even know I was a Los Angeles Times
best-selling author until now I don't
know you're not a real author if you
don't unless you don't know all your
Awards I hear that's the uh that's
credibility check right there sometimes
I didn't know the USA Today I didn't
know the Los Angeles Times I mean it's
all it's all on the book description of
Amazon so I don't know maybe check that
out I actually bought the book two days
ago hoping it would get here so I could
hold it up but it's gonna get here like
right as we finish but I am going to
read it so just so you know but let's
get into the book New York Times
best-selling author of the book Hustle
the power to change your life with money
meaning and momentum so I'm curious Neil
why don't you tell us a little bit about
what the process of writing that book
was like and what inspired you to
actually put it all together
so the thesis behind the book was to
become a New York Times bestselling
author which would help with speaking
and my career it's not really help much
I co-authored it I worked with my
co-authors on the book they mainly did
most the writing I did mainly most of
promotion and that's what we ended up uh
cranking out a book I'm curious why do
you think it didn't help because just a
preface this I've seen so many great
authors uh create movements with books
and the feedback on this one seems
exceptional so like
that I think one co-authors I'm not
saying there's anything wrong with my
co-authors but it wasn't just me as an
author so it probably didn't help as
much the second is is it's not related
to my industry right I spend all my time
in marketing the book isn't related to
marketing so I think those are the two
reasons
are are you gonna do another book no
don't ever care to do another one it's a
pain in the butt headache uh not a fun
process
I'm glad we opened with it great well
Neil real quick before we move on from
the book what was some valuable feedback
you got from you know people that were
reading it before you put it out or your
editors that you kind of took with you
on your journey in the uh marketing SEO
PR space going forward
yeah so
we didn't get a ton of feedback other
than either I liked the book or I didn't
like the book or I could change this you
change that
um
you know people are just telling me I
remember when I was writing the book
they would always complain the publisher
would always complain hey you need to
generate more sales you're not getting
enough Book Sales and I'm like bull crap
I'm like we have so many pre-sales and
corporations ordering so many books and
they would compare me to other people
that they gave a 500 Grand advance to as
well and I knew some of those
individuals so I'd call them would be
like hey dude how many books did you
send that tell me the number the real
number and I'm like why are you guys
complaining we've sold more than them
I'm like chill out right but uh
they always wanted more sales
um and it was it was just tough I would
say in just corporate orders alone
I'm pretty sure we sold more than like
50 or 60 000 copies just in corporate
sales you know when you say corporate
sales do you like do you mean companies
that are giving away at their like
industry shows or to their staff like oh
okay yeah
we all know I don't know how to read but
I I bought your book oh wow it doesn't
want to show on Audible show the logo
okay this isn't working I bought the
book and it's not letting me show it I
did audible but yes
um that's that seems pretty crazy so
they were just constantly just giving
you pressure to sell more books even
though you were doing well
um Fifth and New York Times best set
listen more than one week in a row so we
had enough volume it's just of course
they want I you can't blame them they're
in the business of just generating sales
um and the corporate orders were really
easy for me to get because I was just
I'm I'm pretty decently well connected
in the corporate world
um so it's really easy for me to go to
Corporation to like buy a hundred
thousand dollars worth of books and go
to the next one buy another 200 000 book
buy fifty thousand like it's not hard to
get to a million bucks in you know Book
Sales just from corporations but the
economics for you as an author and your
co-authors are pretty shitty when it
comes to actually publishing with a
publisher right
I would have made more money if I
self-publish when I just bought your
book on Audible do they give you
something like do you know how much you
make from one audible purchase it's like
not much right I have no idea
wow I I didn't care about the economic I
did the book for actually I could add
New York Times bestselling author to my
bio it is it does look nice on your
LinkedIn well that's pretty impressed
with your introduction I don't know I
liked it
I was gonna ask Neil did you like
did you know it was gonna get that kind
of success before you even published it
like it wasn't even a matter of are we
gonna become a New York Times
best-selling author it was more just
when
yeah well I knew because I knew I could
game the system so the thing with the
New York Times list is they have a
formula on how to get there they look at
how many books you get ordered in the
first week so any of pre-soles pre-sales
help with that they tell you you know
the rough number there's a company in
San Diego or I don't know if they still
exist called result source so they know
like the formula really well and they're
just like here's how many computers you
need so you get the corporate orders you
drive you give them the money don't
order the books throughout all different
places in the world or in the United
States and different cities and then
they collect all the books and then they
send them to the corporations that order
them that's pretty much how most people
game the system I didn't get on the New
York Times bestseller list because a lot
of individuals bought the book you know
be fully transparent that wasn't the
case I got on the New York Times
bestselling list because I had a ton of
corporations that I knew with really
Deep Pockets that were publicly traded
just be like here's 100 Grand here's 200
Grand Etc and that adds up super fast
when you're trying to sell books you can
sell a lot of volume when people are
buying 10 000 copies at a time or five
thousand whatever the number is
so you say in the book or with the book
that it didn't really move the needle
for you as a speaker or your career but
the title and I had a full transparency
I didn't buy it or read it sorry no
problem at all I didn't know until I got
the topics today I'll read the book but
my question is based on the title which
is the power to change your life with uh
money meaning and momentum do you feel
like putting out that many copies of the
book actually had a ripple effect that
changed people's lives because that is
an interesting outcome as well
um that that for sure I I I've gotten a
lot of people emailing me over the years
how the books help them and I'm happy
about that
um I was just talking about it from a
selfish standpoint in which the goal of
releasing the book in the first place
before I even started typing one word or
my co-auth to start typing one word and
we started working on it was New York
Times bestselling author in hopes to get
more money as a speaker and generate
more business and from that end it did
not help thought from the end user
perspective got a ton of amazing
feedback and majority of the people that
uh have come up to me have said they
like it maybe a lot of people don't like
it and those people don't want to say
anything you know and for those people I
am sorry but for the majority of people
that have come up to me they have said
they liked it that's really cool and as
far as just to be neutral and break it
down from a marketing standpoint the
reason I want to be super transparent is
a lot of people still to this day hit me
up and say I want to write a book in
hopes that it'll help me with things
like speaking and whatnot and I do think
it can it just has to be very industry
specific and I don't know if you need to
be a New York Times bestseller it's more
so I think it needs to be very industry
specific did you sell anything in the
book as a beckoned
not that I know yeah
so I you know I've spoken with a lot of
authors and ghost writers and and the
the consensus is basically like you
don't write a book for any reasonable
Financial outcome unless you have a
back-end courses Obama or Trump or
president you're gonna make a killing or
Tim Ferriss you know sure yeah yeah
exactly by the way tools of Titans is a
recommended purchase of your book on
Amazon speaking of Tim Ferriss hmm
Tim's a great author yeah big fan as
well so when it comes to speaking I'm
curious do you find that as because
obviously your back end is Neil Patel
digital and selling agency and doing
marketing and that's your real skill set
in your organization do you find that
speaking
um is is a key component in driving new
business into your agency or what what
is the effect of speaking that you have
found and how has it evolved over your
career
sure so it used to be where I charged
for speaking like how can I get you know
when I first started it was like 510
Grand now it could be 50 100 grand for a
speech sometimes less depending on the
venue and who the audience is sometimes
I don't even care for the money actually
majority of the times now it's shifted
in which I started to speak for money
and I got up to seven figures a year
really quickly I think it took like four
years to get that just from speaking
like my fees which is pure profit right
um that's after speaker bureaus Etc
sometimes they send you speaking gigs
and they take a cut
and what I found
with my current company NP digital right
it's an ad agency we're Global I'll go
and I'll speak in countries like Mexico
City so that way more people in Mexico
know we have an agency or I'll go speak
at a conference in Brazil
um maybe VTech or whatever you know the
local event may be and what I found is
the money is a terrible Roi versus how
much money for me at least I can make in
business because my business is a decent
size right we have like 750 plus
employees
and just in the Ad Agency alone and when
you look at it one contract can easily
be not a million dollars but millions of
dollars and in some cases eight figures
so you get one of those you're making
more in profit from one of those a year
than you would from any speaking gig and
if a customer pays you on average for
five six years you're really making the
residual money right
so what I ideally like to do from
speaking and I found this to be the
ideal scenario
speak at the right events where my ideal
clients are there like the big
corporations
and not just the big corporations but
the people who are decision makers at
those big corporations and instead of
charging for speaking try to speak for
free I don't even care if I had to pay
for travel but require them to set up
meetings or a small room where we speak
just to those individuals and break down
case studies and stuff like that that's
fishing with dynamite we pick up tons of
business from that or we get brand
recognitions with those employees and
decision makers at those businesses
eventually they hop around to other
companies and you start getting business
that way as well that's done really well
for us that can generate millions and
millions and millions a year
um and even tens of millions so we speak
quite a bit that's been a better
strategy for us than just me going to a
conference and charging to speak